# Techniques to developing a growth mindset to see failure and challenges constructively

We suggest you bookmark this page to return to while doing the exercise, and later, when you face failure and want to remember these techniques for overcoming it with a growth mindset.

1. **Use the acronym \"FAIL = First Attempt In Learning"**: To FAIL means to take your “first attempt in learning” something new. This first attempt you make doesn’t mean you will master it the same day. It takes time, practice, and patience. Learn to replace the word “fail” in your mind with the acronym “First Attempt in Learning”. Repeating this acronym to yourself can help you develop a strong constructive mindset around failure.
2. **Understand neuroplasticity**: When you practice something over and over again, you tend to get to a point where it becomes more automatic or easier for you. The ability of the brain to master something practiced over time is called in science, Neuroplasticity. Neuroplasticity is the brain’s ability to change and grow throughout a person’s life, using the new information it receives to help it grow. Until recently, scientists thought that this was only possible in early childhood. They believed that the brain “solidified” and became fixed in its habits. However, research has shown that the brain continues to change even into old age. The exercise you are about to do will show that you can learn anything at any age, as long as you are open and willing to practice and practice till you learn it.
3. **Recognize and allow your negative thoughts**: Sometimes when we experience failure, we tend to be harsh to ourselves in the ways we speak to ourselves. We also tend to compare ourselves to others. Often we wish we could delete all the bad, negative thoughts of our failures and take only the good ones about our success; but as we said on the main page of this lesson, failure is absolutely important for personal growth. For this reason, it is important to embrace our negative thoughts around a failure by recognizing them and allowing them to be for some time. Recognizing and allowing can create space for more creative solutions to build up in your brain and help you deal with the failure you are experiencing.
4. **Practice kindness to yourself by calling the kindness police**: When you have recognized your negative thoughts about failure and allowed them to be, it is now time to call the kindness police. The kindness police is here to give you another side of the story. Think of the kindness police as an investigator coming into your brain and asking you the following questions about these thoughts:
   - *Are they true?*
   - *Do you know everything about the other person?*
   - *Is it possible that they are just as scared as you?*
   - *Who told you that you could not learn anything? Do they hold the absolute truth?*
5. **Practice saying "*I can pause and...*"**: When you realize that your brain is spiralling into negativity and you are struggling to get out of these non-beneficial thoughts, you can use the technique of saying to yourself: “I can pause and...”. This technique permits you to do other things at that moment that give you joy or relax you. It is a powerful technique because you can rest your brain for a few minutes, removing it from the present pressure so that when you come back your brain can see the failure from a clearer and more constructive angle. There are many things you can do when you pause and some examples are:
   - I can pause and…
     - *Take a bath*
     - *Get outside*
     - *Go for a walk*
     - *Sing!*
     - *Call a friend*
6. **Use the YET technique:** The word "YET" is the key foundation of the growth mindset. It is the one word you need to remember from this exercise and include in your daily vocabulary when you experience failures or challenges. A failure is simply something you have not "*yet*" mastered so this means that your brain is capable of overcoming this failure with practice and time. Reframing the words you say to your brain by including the word "*yet*" will encourage it to be more open to growing and accepting new information. In the exercise you will do here, you will practice using the YET technique.
7. **Practice Retrospection:** By the time you have practiced all the points above, your brain would have now reached a stage where you can constructively ask yourself questions about the failure that happened and how to learn from it. This is called Retrospection and it is another important pillar of the growth mindset. You will also be practicing this in the exercise.
8. **Take small actions:** Last, but not least, is to take action after analyzing a failure. Start by taking small actions as these will bring small results that will motivate you to continue. Over time with practice, the results will get bigger and at some point become automatic or much easier for you to handle. The exercise you will do here will help you practice how to define small actions that you can take to help overcome a failure or challenge.

------

_If you spot any bugs or issues in this activity, you can [open an issue with your proposed change](https://github.com/microverseinc/curriculum-transversal-skills/blob/main/git-github/articles/open_issue.md)._
