# What if the feedback I am receiving is not constructive?

During the course of your career, you will sometimes receive feedback from a frustrated colleague who loses their cool or violates the principles of kindness, respect, directness. Sometimes you get criticism that is more subjective and it's unclear how you can take action on it. **It is very important not to respond in kind.** Instead you should **focus on how to nudge the conversation towards being more constructive**. If you do so, you can diffuse a conflict before one starts.

When receiving feedback that feels negative or not constructive, you should:

- **Remain calm**: It can be even more tempting than usual to get defensive if the feedback you're receiving isn't constructive or seems mean-spirited. But if you respond in kind, that will only escalate the situation and deepen the dysfunction in the conversation. To diffuse hostility, you have to start by modeling the professionalism and solutions-oriented tone that isn't being afforded to you. It might be hard, but it is essential.
- **Determine the root of the conflict**: Understand that in general people do not wake up in the morning and say to themselves, *"I'm going to be vicious and mean-spirited to someone today!"* People usually believe they have good reasons for how they are behaving and usually see themselves as well-intentioned even when they're lashing out at you in an unacceptable way. To address this, you have to get to the root of their frustration and put it into context. It is often helpful to ask clarifying questions, get them to explain how they feel, and why they feel that way. If you do so in a welcoming and empathetic way, that can often calm the mood and make the conversation more constructive.
- **Steer the feedback towards constructive ends**: Feedback that doesn't begin constructively can still end up being constructive if you help your colleague reframe it towards specific, actionable steps that can be taken to address it. Again, having specific steps you can take to move forward will make both of you feel that it was a productive and useful conversation.
- **Give meta feedback**: After fully processing the feedback you have received and arriving at constructive, actionable steps to take to address it, you should let your colleague know that the feedback you received could have been delivered with better decorum. Remind them that feedback should be given in an open, respectful, fact-based, kind, and direct way. Deliver your message as calmly as possible and you will surely help them do better in the future.

------

_If you spot any bugs or issues in this activity, you can [open an issue with your proposed change](https://github.com/microverseinc/curriculum-transversal-skills/blob/main/git-github/articles/open_issue.md)._
