# How to prepare before attending a tech event
- **Research the presenters:** Take some time to research the presenters. Are they on Twitter? If so, start following them on Twitter and see if they have any tweets that are interesting to you. If they do, like and retweet. All these little actions will increase your visibility to the presenters and their network, thus helping you grow your network. If you couldn't find them on Twitter, are they on LinkedIn? If so, you can send them a connection message letting them know that you will be attending their event and that you are looking forward to it.
- **Research the attendees:** Take some time to research the other attendees. This might not always be easy; a tech conference will likely have a list of speakers, but probably won’t publish a list of every attendee who has RSVP’d. However, the event may have a dedicated Twitter page where they post updates before the event, and you can check the comments and retweets to find a probable list of attendees.
- **Introduce yourself** **to attendees:** When you have researched the people you are interested in meeting from the step above, reach out to them to introduce yourself. Twitter allows you to send DMs to people so you can even message some of the attendees you see commenting. Other websites like Meetup.com allow you to directly message organizers and attendees. You also have websites like conferencebuddy.io which allow you to buddy-up and chat with other people who will be attending the same conference as you. To introduce yourself, your message should be brief and to the point: let them know you’re attending the same event, let them know why you chose to write them, and then tell them you look forward to meeting them.


------

_If you spot any bugs or issues in this activity, you can [open an issue with your proposed change](https://github.com/microverseinc/curriculum-transversal-skills/blob/main/git-github/articles/open_issue.md)._
