# How should I show off my open source contributions on GitHub?

GitHub offers a feature to [pin projects to your profile](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-profile/pinning-items-to-your-profile) so other people can quickly see your best work. But what if some of your best work was a [contribution to an open source project](https://github.com/microverseinc/curriculum-professional-skills/blob/main/job-search/contributing-to-open-source-projects.md)? If you are a major contributor to the project, then go ahead and pin the project to your profile. However, you should not pin repositories to your profile that you are not a substantial committer to.

For example, suppose you submitted several pull requests doing essential maintenance to a project and the owner offered you contributor status (the power to merge to the main branch) on the project. In this case, you would be considered a core committer and you should feel entitled to pin the project to your profile.

Now consider another scenario: suppose you fixed a bug in Ruby on Rails and got it merged into the project. This is an impressive accomplishment which you should be proud of and brag about. However, if you pin Rails to your GitHub profile as a result of this contribution, a potential employer looking at your profile might feel misled into thinking you're a major contributor to Rails, which is a perception you definitely want to avoid because it could be seen as lying on your resume.

Instead, small contributions to big projects such as in the above example should be advertised another way: Talk about them on your resume, LinkedIn, and AngeList profiles. Mention it in your cover letters and in your portfolio. You can also talk about such open source contributions in your [GitHub profile README](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-profile/managing-your-profile-readme). Each of those places are better places to list your open source contributions because you can explain the context of your contribution or link directly to the pull request(s) you got merged.

Don't forget: open source contributions are one of the best ways to impress hiring managers because it provides them with direct evidence that you can take large, existing codebases and contribute useful improvements to them which is exactly the skill they are hiring for. Maintaining a properly-curated list of your open source contributions should be a top priority during your job search. Happy coding! 😀
