# Pointers to consider when searching for a good-fitting job

- **Check the level of experience they are looking for:** Most job descriptions will ask for a certain number of years of experience which you can use as a benchmark to determine if you want to apply or not. Junior developer roles tend to require 1-3 years' experience, mid-senior roles tend to require 3 - 6 years' experience, and senior roles tend to require 7+ years of experience. If you have just started your coding journey and do not have 1 year of experience, it is still important to apply to junior roles, leveraging your Microverse training, elevator pitch, and personalized cover letter to help you stand out.

- **Read through the tech stacks they are looking for:** This is a pointer that often stops students from applying, especially when they see that the job description is asking for a million different tech stacks. It is important to note that recruiters usually put out adverts in the hope to find one person who can do everything but since no one is perfect, this one person rarely exists. This is why it is important to apply even if you know only one of the tech stacks on the job description.

- **Learn to identify what is essential for the role and what is not:** In the job requirements, skills that are mandatory to have are often preceeded by the words "*must-have*" or "*essential*". On the other hand, skills that are not so essential are often preceeded by the words "*preferred*" or "*bonus*". Knowing these can help you determine whether to apply for the job or not.

- **Learn to look out for important soft skills:** Some job descriptions might say things like "*looking for a good communicator*" or "*looking for a team player*" or "*must have the ability to work remotely*", etc. When you read through a job description, it is important to read through the soft skills and determine which of these you have and would like to showcase. Once you know which of the required soft skills you have, you can then leverage this by writing a personalized elevator pitch or cover letter that showcases these soft skills.

- **Learn to look out for personalized touches in job postings:** This is a great way to stand out from other candidates and show that you have read the job description. Some companies will personalize their job descriptions by making them sound cool, edgy or fun, to attract the same type of people. Thus, the job description might say things like "*If you're a Star Wars fan, that's a bonus!*" or something like "*We think Dan Abramov's videos are really cool and we watch them religiously every week!*" etc. These personal touches in job postings are very effective when you mention them in your cover letter or elevator pitch because it shows the company that you paid attention to the job description so remember to do this before applying to these types of jobs.

- **Learn to look at the job location and work permits:** Most of the time, this information is featured at the bottom of the job description so it's important to quickly scan the job post to see if this information is present before you get excited and start applying straight away.

- **Learn to open up to other roles in the tech industry:** You might think that if a job title doesn't have the word "junior developer" or "React/Ruby developer", it's not for you but the truth is that the industry is huge with a variety of roles: there are TSE jobs, Tester jobs, DevOps jobs, Technical Writer jobs, Project Manager jobs, Mentoring jobs, Software architect jobs and more. You can navigate from one role to another as long as you are in the industry so there's no need to worry that you will stray from the path of development if you choose one of these roles.
